---
title: "June 30 2021"
date: 2021-06-30
slug: "june-30-2021"
tags:
  - "covid"
  - "humour"
  - "podcasts"
  - "tv-shows"
draft: false
---

Today I heard about this delightfully hilarious BBC Radio Sitcom called "[Cabin Pressure](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cabin_Pressure_\(radio_series\))" voice-starring Stephanie Cole, Roger Allam, Benedict Cumberbatch and John Finnemore. Every episode is titled a place on the map indicating where they, the chartered plane and its staff, are or are flying to for that episode and the short but funny misadventures they end up having.

I only started listening to it because of Benedict Cumberbatch, but I found myself most drawn to the character Roger Allam plays - Douglas Richardson, First Office at the MJN Air. I shouldn't really have been surprised at how a radio show made me laugh so much, because I do love a good dialogue and witty banter and this show is full of those. But I was pleasantly surprised at the frequency with which this continued to get me going. I remember there was a point on my evening walk when I was grinning broadly as I walked along the rather short circuit in RBI Layout's park and it suddenly struck me that the reason no one was staring at me for what I can only assume must be a very goofy grin is because we're all in a pandemic and are wearing masks that save us the embarassment of revealing our satisfied expressions that we cannot explain to everyone on a walk.

I do hope you will listen to it. It's available on every Podcast platform.

What else happened today? Ah yes, it was day 1 of a 2-day-training we're conducting at my workplace. The hands-on exercise is where I was required to assist and I was pretty happy with how it turned out.

Good day.
