---
title: "A is for Adieu [#AtoZChallenge]"
# date: FILL-IN
slug: "a-is-for-adieu-atozchallenge"
tags:
  - "a-to-z"
  - "education"
  - "fiction"
  - "humour"
  - "reflections"
draft: false
---

He stood at the back of the crowd, not wanting to be a part of it, not wanting to talk to anybody. Everyone had varied emotions on their faces - sadness, indifference, even joy? But they were probably happy about something else, surely. A funeral was not really place that induced happiness, even if it was for someone who was your mortal enemy. And Vincent liked to think he hadn't made any enemies in his lifetime; well, none that would attend his funeral anyway. It was an odd feeling, to linger around, incorporeally, within spitting distance of his own physical body. It was also funny, in a sense. When he had been alive, he had often wondered what people really thought of him. A deep sense of insecurity and cynicism had always shrouded him in social settings and he'd always questioned if any of what was happening around him was real. If the way people spoke, the things they said, if any of it was genuine. He had heard a tale as a child, of a king, who would often disguise himself and wander around his kingdom as a commoner, just to find out what his people thought of him as a person. And Vincent had been very taken with the idea. But it wasn't practical obviously. And now that he was dead, but lingering in spirit, he was doing the very thing he'd always wanted to do. Well, it wasn't the same. There was nothing he could do with whatever he learnt, but it was...something. So he leaned against the wall behind him and listened. "He was such a friendly person, always ready to help", a woman sniffed. Vincent inadvertently smiled. Of course he'd always helped Julia. His only regret was that he'd never asked her out like he'd wanted to. "Really?", Archie exclaimed, "He was always busy whenever I asked for help!". Hmph. Archie had been such an annoying person. Vincent had, for the longest time, out of the kindness of his heart, always picked up the phone whenever his classmate, Archie had called, even after graduation. But it seemed after a point, that Archie had always required help, maybe a little too much. And eventually, he, Vincent had stopped answering Archie's calls. He could hardly be faulted for that. He got tired. "What about all the times I Did help you Arch?", Vincent muttered to himself. In another corner of the room, John and James were laughing away. "I know right!", John guffawed, "What was he thinking putting him on as striker?". Vincent rolled his eyes. He wondered why they'd come. Maybe they'd just seen this as more as a way to catch up and less of a scene for paying respects. His eyes wandered around the room as he saw other familiar faces, and some unfamiliar ones. The air grew silent as the priest slowly stepped up to the pulpit and called for the eulogy. He watched his sister, Mary slowly walked up, ashen faced. She had undoubtedly been crying. Vincent watched as Mary spoke about her version of his life. How he had been the best brother ever. "Thanks for lying, Mary", Vincent thought. They had been close as children, but had drifted apart as adults, only ever meeting for the holidays. But still, those days Had been fun. He continued to watch as Mary finished her speech and his best friend, Tom took her place. Tom's tone was less bleak. Trust Tom to liven things up even at a funeral. He even told them about an embarassing incident that had taken place during college that they'd sworn they'd take to the grave. Well, a promise broken eh Tom?

The ceremony ended and people were beginning to say their goodbyes. First, to Vincent's body in the casket and then to each other. As he saw them leaving, his thoughts went back to the final moments before life had left his body. He never saw the car coming till that last second when he did. His whole life had flashed before his eyes like in the movies. Or had that been the headlights of the car? Why hadn't he felt any pain? Why wasn't he given the chance to fight for his life? ....Would he have fought though? He didn't know. Now it all seemed pointless anyway.

He sighed deeply. Is this how death was supposed to feel? ... Hollow? Then again, why should death be any different than life? He smiled to himself at the grim thought and slowly walked out of the church with his hand raised high and waving adieu to an imaginary crowd behind him. Everyone else had already left.
